# EasyGPA | Calculating GPAs made easy

About EasyGPA: EasyGPA is a GPA calculating web-app. It can calculate both your weighted and unweighted GPAs based on just the number of classes you are taking and your grades in each of them! EasyGPA includes an aesthetic sunset themed UI to ensure that the web-app is pleasing to the eye and not just plain white (which is pretty boring to the user). EasyGPA has been proven to be 100% accurate, and if you don't trust me, you can compare your GPA calculated by EasyGPA with your GPA on your report card (when you receive it). They should be exactly the same!

What EasyGPA does: EasyGPA takes two different user inputs for the unweighted GPA - one is the number of classes and the other is the user's grade in each class. For the weighted GPA, it takes three user inputs with the extra one being the class level. After the user inputs have been filled out, EasyGPA then assigns each grade a certain number of grade points based on the standard GPA scale from College Board, calculates the sum of all of the grade points, and divides the sum by the number of classes to get a final GPA! 

Why I made EasyGPA: I made EasyGPA because as a a high school student, I am always eager to know what my GPA is (unweighted and weighted) before my report card is sent out at the end of the year. In the past, I have resorted to ChatGPT for calculating my GPA, but it turns out that ChatGPT gave me a totally wrong result. Thus, I tried GPA calculators available on the internet, but the majority of those asked for the number of "credits" each of my classes are worth and I had no idea what that meant! If I left that field empty, the website wouldn't even let me calculate my GPA. That's when I began to research how to actually calculate both your unweighted and weighted GPAs. But any time I wanted to calculate my GPA, I had to actually pull out a calculator and perform the mathematical operations which was pretty tiring. I wanted to streamline this process, for not just myself but also for other students just like me, hence I created EasyGPA!

How I made EasyGPA: I made EasyGPA using mainly HTML, although CSS was used for styling the UI, and JavaScript was responsible for the actual calculations and input generation.

What I struggled with and learned along the way: One of the things I struggled with was making sure the GPA calculations were accurate, especially with the weighted GPA calculator which takes 3 different factors into account. Also, I was having some spacing issues as there was a huge gap between the EasyGPA header and the unweighted GPA calculator which looked pretty ugly in terms of the UI. Something I learned about along the way was how to handle user input effectively in JavaScript and just overall web-app styling.
